{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs36\lang9 DEVEOPS\par
\fs32\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 History of DevOps\b0\fs22\par
\fs28 DevOps, a combination of "Development" and "Operations," is a set of practices that aims to bridge the gap between software development and IT operations. The goal is to improve collaboration and productivity by automating infrastructure, workflows, and continuously measuring application performance.\par
\b\fs32 Uses of DevOps\b0\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 DevOps practices are widely used across various industries to enhance software development and IT operations. Here are some key uses:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Continuous Integration and Continuous Deployment (CI/CD): \b0 Automating the process of integrating code changes and deploying them to production environments.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Infrastructure as Code (IaC): \b0 Managing and provisioning infrastructure through code, allowing for version control and automation.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Monitoring and Logging: \b0 Continuously monitoring application performance and logging data to identify and resolve issues quickly.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Collaboration and Communication: \b0 Improving collaboration between development and operations teams through shared tools and practices.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Scalability and Flexibility: \b0 Enabling organizations to scale their infrastructure and applications efficiently.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Security: \b0 Integrating security practices into the development and deployment processes, often referred to as DevSecOps.\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs40 CLOUD AND CLOUD COMPUTING\par
\b0\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Cloud:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 The term cloud in computing refers to a network of servers that are hosted on the internet and used to store, manage, and process data.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} Instead of relying on a local server or personal computer, users can access computing resources and services via the internet, often referred to as "the cloud."\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Cloud Computing:\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Cloud computing is the delivery of various services through the internet, including storage, processing power, databases, networking, software, analytics, and intelligence.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab} It allows users to access and use these services without managing the underlying physical infrastructure. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Cloud computing offers on-demand availability of resources, scalability, cost-efficiency, and flexibility.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\b\fs32 Key Characteristics of Cloud Computing:\b0\fs28\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 1.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pndec{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b On-Demand Self-Service: \b0 Users can provision computing resources as needed without human intervention.\par
{\pntext\f0 2.\tab}\b Broad Network Access: \b0 Services are accessible over the internet from various devices, including smartphones, tablets, and laptops.\par
{\pntext\f0 3.\tab}\b Resource Pooling: \b0 Multiple users share resources in a multi-tenant model, dynamically allocating resources based on demand.\par
{\pntext\f0 4.\tab}\b Rapid Elasticity: \b0 Resources can be quickly scaled up or down to meet changing demands.\par
{\pntext\f0 5.\tab}\b Measured Service: \b0 Cloud services are metered, and users pay only for what they use.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Cloud computing has transformed the way businesses and individuals use technology, providing access to powerful resources and services without the need for extensive hardware and maintenance.\par
\par
\b\fs36 There are 2 types of computing resources:\b0\fs28\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Service model: \b0 public,private,Hybrid,community,multi-cloud\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Distributed model: \b0 Iaas,Paas,Saas\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b SERVICE MODEL: \b0\par
1.\b  Public Cloud\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Definition: \b0 Public cloud services are provided by third-party providers over the internet. Resources are shared among multiple users (tenants).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Examples\b0 : Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform (GCP).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Use Cases: \b0 Ideal for small and medium-sized businesses, startups, and individual users who need cost-effective and scalable solutions.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 2. \b Private Cloud\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Definition: \b0 Private cloud services are dedicated to a single organization. Resources are not shared with other users, providing greater control and security.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Examples: \b0 VMware vSphere, Microsoft Azure Stack, OpenStack.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Use Cases\b0 : Suitable for large enterprises and organizations with strict security and compliance requirements.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 3. \b Hybrid Cloud\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Definition: \b0 Hybrid cloud combines public and private clouds, allowing data and applications to be shared between them. This provides greater flexibility and optimized performance.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Examples: \b0 AWS Outposts, Microsoft Azure Arc, Google Anthos.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Use Cases: \b0 Ideal for businesses that require both the scalability of public cloud and the security of private cloud.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 4. \b Community Cloud\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Definition: \b0 Community cloud is a collaborative effort where infrastructure is shared among several organizations with common interests and requirements.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Examples\b0 : Government clouds, research community clouds.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Use Cases: \b0 Suitable for organizations with similar security, compliance, and jurisdictional needs, such as government agencies and research institutions.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b 5. Multi-Cloud\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Definition\b0 : Multi-cloud refers to the use of multiple cloud services from different providers to avoid vendor lock-in and optimize performance.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Examples\b0 : Using a combination of AWS, Azure, and GCP services.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Use Cases\b0 : Ideal for businesses that want to leverage the strengths of different cloud providers and enhance redundancy and resilience\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\b DISTRIBUTED MODEL:\b0\par
\b Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Definition: \b0 IaaS provides virtualized computing resources over the internet. It offers infrastructure components such as virtual machines, storage, and networking.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Control: \b0 Users have control over the operating systems, applications, and storage.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Use Cases: \b0 IaaS is ideal for businesses that need flexible and scalable infrastructure without investing in physical hardware. Examples include hosting websites, running virtual machines, and storing large datasets.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Examples: \b0 Amazon Web Services (AWS) EC2, Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform (GCP).\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Platform as a Service (PaaS)\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Definition: \b0 PaaS provides a platform that includes infrastructure, runtime environments, and development tools. It allows developers to build, deploy, and manage applications without managing the underlying hardware and software.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Control: \b0 Users focus on developing and managing applications, while the PaaS provider handles infrastructure and platform management.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Use Cases\b0 : PaaS is suitable for developers who want to focus on coding and deploying applications without worrying about infrastructure management. Examples include web application development, database management, and API integration.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Examples: \b0 Microsoft Azure App Service, Google App Engine, Heroku.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Software as a Service (SaaS)\b0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Definition: \b0 SaaS delivers software applications over the internet on a subscription basis. Users can access and use the software via a web browser without worrying about installation, maintenance, or infrastructure.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Control: \b0 Users have limited control over the software and its configuration but benefit from automatic updates and maintenance.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Use Cases: \b0 SaaS is ideal for businesses and individuals who need access to software applications without the hassle of installation and maintenance. Examples include email services, customer relationship management (CRM), and collaboration tools.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Examples\b0 : Microsoft Office 365, Google Workspace, Salesforce.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Compiler\b0\fs28\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 A compiler is a special program that translates high-level source code written in programming languages like C, C++, or Java into machine code (binary code) that a computer's processor can execute. The key characteristics of a compiler are:\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Translation\b0 : It translates the entire source code into machine code at once, producing an executable file.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Error Checking: \b0 Compilers perform extensive error checking during the compilation process and generate error messages if syntax or semantic errors are found.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Execution Speed: \b0 Once the source code is compiled into an executable file, the program runs quickly since it is already in machine code.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Examples\b0  of compilers include GCC (GNU Compiler Collection) for C and C++, and javac for Java.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\fs36 Interpreter\b0\fs28\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 An interpreter is a special program that translates high-level source code into machine code line-by-line or statement-by-statement and executes it immediately. The key characteristics of an interpreter are:\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Translation and Execution: \b0 It translates and executes the source code line-by-line, without producing an intermediate executable file.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Error Checking: \b0 Interpreters check for errors one statement at a time and stop execution if an error is encountered.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Execution Speed: \b0 Interpreted programs typically run slower than compiled programs because each statement is translated and executed on the fly.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\b Examples \b0 of interpreters include Python (for Python code), Ruby (for Ruby code), and Node.js(for JavaScript).\par
}
 